Ch.1 - Ch.4 introduce basic terminology and flow of designing a database, so just skip that.

Ch.5 Starting the Process
"Interview" as in talking with data user on how data interrelate with each other
2. Establish guideline before interviewing client
    a. make participant aware of your intention
    b. give participant a motivation to take part in the interview,
    show appreciation and let them know their response is valuable to the entire design project
    c. take the role of arbitrator if (data structure related ) dispute arise between participants

Mission statment: declare the specific purpose of the database,
                  it should be only a few sentence in length and should
                  not focus on micro task.

Mission objective: general tasks supported by data maintained in the new database.
                    Each objective should be one task.


Ch.6 Analyzing the Current database
3 steps in analysis process:
    a. how is data collected?
    b. manner the information is presented
    c. conduct interviews with users and management


Ch.7 Establishing Table Structures
a. start off with a preliminary table list, then go throught this table list using below
    item order:
    1. preliminary field list
    2. list of subjects from interviews
    3. mission objectives
b. After we have the prelimiary table list from above, we add table type and 
    table desc to turn it into Final Table list.

table type are:
    1. data table: event / facts
    2. linking table: intermediate table for many to many relationship
    3. subset table: dimension table that describe data table
    4. validation table

c. define table description: statment that accurately defines the table
d. associate preliminary fields list to final table list


Ch.8 Keys
This chapter go throught primary key, foreign key, surrogate key and non-key fields
But the author placed greate effort in not mentioning techincal term such as the "normal form",
this actually make it harder to understand IMO.


Ch.9 Field Specifications
Basically is is about the metadata for all fields in database. Though in modern era we
have data catalog that could serve this purpose better. At least the idea of knowing all fields
characteristics is an important concept


Ch.10 Table Relationships
    1-1 relationship: almost always relate to a subset table
    1-mamy: most common
    many-many: 2nd common, but should be aid with intermediate table

